-Moko.
-Yes?
-Are you almost done?
-Almost. I just washed my hair.
I mean, I'm about to.
You can't even remember?
-Now what?
-I'm washing my hair.
Please hurry.
-All right, just a second.
-Moko, please hurry.
-Get in line.
-The line starts here.
-Yes, after Woko.
-I really need to poop. Woko!
Get in line!
Okay. One second. Almost done.
See, I'm out.
I was first.
I intended to knock before you.
"Intended"? Ask the door who was first.
I intended it first, God knows!
-Ano!
-I really had to go.
-What?
-Rude!
But it's worse to poop in my pants.
Oh, gosh.
And I have an exam today.
If you let me shower first,
I'll finish faster.
Faster? You usually take
two hours to shower.
Two hours?
I'm serious. I've repainted this wall
while waiting for you.
You didn't even do it right.
-Stop.
-I was joking.
It's just that you take forever to shower.
Not two hours, though.
I've always given in.
I always let you go first.
But today, I have an exam, Moko.
-I haven't studied yet.
-Who told you not to study?
No one. I just haven't.
All right. Do your shower
in stages then. Come on.
That's better than being late. Come on.
-You've got soap all over.
-Where?
You want to be quick, right? Do it here.
No. I'll do it inside.
-In stages.
-Not good enough.
What are you up to?
Where's my watch?
Here, Atmo. Take your medicine.
Agnes, help me with the tie.
Someone is about to graduate from college.
Stay calm, okay? Focus.
You can do it. I'm proud of you, Moko.
-What are you trying to do?
-What? This isn't done yet.
The knot you made is too thick.
-Twice. Left and right.
-No. Look.
Twice left and right knots
are for old men.
He's a college student.
People might mistake him for a professor.
Moko may look young,
but inside, he's like a professor.
No, not like a professor.
-What?
-He's just old.
-Here it is. Look.
-No way.
My tie looks better
because it's neat and more formal.
That's how I tie yours too.
That's because I'm an old man.
Now just tuck it in.
-Moko!
-Yes!
He's coming.
Slow down. Don't run.
I'm going, Agnes.
Bye, Ima.
-You can do it, Uncle Moko.
-"Big brother."
Fine. Big brother. He prefers that.
Atmo.
-Mom, Dad. We're going.
-Stay focused.
-Take care, Woko. Ano.
-Wish me luck, okay?
-Bye.
-Uncle, Aunty. We're going.
Bye!
-Bye!
Say bye to the baby.
-Look how big he is.
-Yeah. Look at him.
Bye!
Where is Ima? Oh, wow!
Moko.
-Hi.
-Are you ready?
-Yes. You?
Try them on.
-Try what?
-Just try them on.
Is it the right size?
Maurin?
It's okay. Just once in a while, Moko.
Here, try these.
Come on. Put them on.
-I'm being an inconvenience.
-No, it's fine.
-Rin.
-Come on, put them on.
-Do they fit?
-Yes.
Thanks.
You shouldn't be worried
about the thesis defense.
You're the top student in our class.
Got a scholarship for grad school.
-But when it comes to scholarships--
-You have no reason to be nervous.
If the examiners ask--
Moko, if you're nervous,
what about the others?
Stop that.
You're scared?
Pretty much.
Imagine graduate school, right?
It will be hard.
So they say.
Because it will challenge
what we've learned.
-Really?
-Yeah, but it will be exciting.
After graduate school,
will you start your own firm?
Let's get a job first.
Yeah, that's what I meant.
Get a job first.
For a year or two.
Once we've gained the knowledge,
then we can start our own firm.
It won't be easy.
I agree. It won't.
But to imagine doing it with you…
I'm willing to do it.
Me too.
-Hello. Agnes?
-Hello? Maurin?
-Is Moko still in the thesis defense?
-Yes.
Please tell Moko
Atmo had a heart attack.
We're taking him to the hospital.
Atmo.
Sis…
Agnes, what's wrong?
Agnes?
-I'm okay.
-Agnes.
-I'm fine.
-Agnes?
Nurse!
-Mom, are you okay?
-Nurse…
Ano, go get a nurse. Hurry up! Sis.
It's fine. My water broke.
-Thank you.
-Yes.
DEATH CERTIFICATE
NAME: ATMO WILOTO - 45 YEARS OLD
OCCUPATION: ARCHITECT
-Excuse me. Good afternoon.
-Good afternoon.
Here's your baby sister.
She needs to breastfeed.
-Can I wake up Ms. Agnes?
-Sure.
Excuse me, Ms. Agnes. Ma'am?
-Sis?
-Ma'am, let's try breastfeeding.
Please hold the baby.
I need to check on her. Sorry.
Mom?
-Sis?
-Mom?
-Ms. Agnes?
Ms. Agnes? Ma'am?
What's wrong, Nurse?
Internal bleeding, Doctor. Uterine atony.
Ma'am?
To the treatment room.
Doctor, what's wrong with my sister?
Excuse us. We will explain later.
What is happening?
-Doctor, what's wrong?
-Excuse us.
-We'll get going.
-Take care.
-Bye, Ima.
Hi, Mo. What are you doing?
I just put Ima to bed. How about you, Osa?
Me? The usual. Just tidying up.
How's Ima? She's healthy?
What about the other kids?
Nina, Woko, Ano?
Good. They're all fine.
And what about you?
I'm fine, Sis.
You sound exhausted.
Not really.
Hey, there's an update.
Eka really can't abandon his work here.
So we can't come home.
I'm sorry.
Yes, Osa. It's fine.
Right here. So, the faculties
will be integrated in this studio.
They said the project requires networking.
Rin.
I'm sorry, okay?
Since I cancelled my master's program,
you have to go on your own.
If I were you, Moko,
I would've done the same.
I feel bad for you, Rin.
Don't you feel bad for yourself?
Why worry about me?
Moko. Sorry. Ima won't stop crying.
She's looking for Moko.
It's okay. I'm leaving anyway. It's late.
Moko, I'm sorry.
But Ima has been crying for a while.
We don't know what else to do.
It's okay.
I'll go check on Ima now.
I'm heading off now.
-Sorry, Maurin.
-Sorry.
It's okay.
Sorry, Maurin.
-Take care, Maurin.
-Okay. Thanks.
Hi!
Hello. Ima. What is this?
Start with 2.5 million.
If it's okay, we can increase it slowly.
The highest is 3.5 million.
Are you okay with that?
I don't mind, sir.
But if I may ask, how many projects
do you usually handle in a month?
Three to five at the most.
-Will you excuse me for a minute?
-Sure. Go ahead.
Pooping? All right.
Yes. What is that, sweetie?
What is that, Ima?
I'm preparing dinner and food
to snack on. Enjoy. - You too.
Rima.
-Ima, right?
-Yes, Ima.
Everyone here is smart. I feel dumb.
I wish you were here
MESSAGE DELETED
She weighs 7.5 kilograms.
-Okay.
-One second, sweetheart.
-How high?
-It's 39.2 Celsius.
All right. Hold her
for a second, will you?
Okay, just a minute.
Let me take off my shirt first.
I know. I'm sorry.
I know. Scoot over.
I know.
You can't do this. There are
many people who want to be drafters.
If you hand in your work late like this,
it will be on me.
-I'm sorry. My niece was sick yesterday--
-I get your situation.
But I can't use that excuse
with the client.
You promised to be on time, right?
Sir, give me one more chance.
it won't happen again--
Sorry. I have to replace you.
Sorry, Mo.
I understand, sir.
And once again, I apologize.
I should go now.
Okay.
Let's go.
Did you just get fired?
Just our luck.
Ano.
This iced tea costs 40,000.
It's okay, Ano.
Let's just walk?
When we open our own studio,
the vision should be like this too.
So we don't have to be
all futuristic and minimalist.
-We can just--
-Maurin?
Yes?
Yes, Mo?
-What if we break up?
-Mo?
Sorry, what do you mean?
I want us to break up.
Moko, wait a minute…
Maurin, being with me
means taking care of four children
and that's just impossible.
-I'm okay with that--
-Owning a firm is impossible.
It's impossible. And you don't understand
my situation here.
Okay. Tell me, then!
You never tell me.
Because I can't tell you!
I have no time.
How can we start a business?
There's so much
you can achieve in your life.
But that won't happen
if you're stuck with me.
You have to be realistic, Rin.
All right. Let's do it, Mo.
Let's be realistic.
Let's think about it together.
-I can't even draft, Rin.
-Mo…
I can't even create a draft.
And I have to find
other jobs outside of architecture.
All right, then.
I will bathe Ima now, so that she…
I'm signing out.
Mo?
But you wanted…
Here, let's wipe you first.
Good girl. Here goes.
Tasty, huh?
-Bali.
-Look, it's Bali.
We're going to Kuta.
-That spoils the whole thing.
-What are you saying?
Excuse me, sir.
I want to stress that Nina
is an exceptionally accomplished student.
Thank you.
Woko is actually quite smart.
However, he tends to goof around a lot.
Looking at the grades,
it's very concerning.
I hope the family can pay attention
to Rivano's studies.
He needs to improve.
All right.
Ima!
Moko. Move it there.
When was our last vacation?
-How can we do that, Woko?
-We can barely pay our electricity bill.
I'll glue your mouth shut.
I'm serious.
-So you won't be able to eat duck meat.
-Don't do that.
Let's look at our house. After vacation…
-Can we see our house from there?
-Of course we can.
Let us see, Wo.
Which one do you want?
Yellow? This one, okay?
Here. Let me get it for you. Let's try.
Sir?
Please accept it, Moko.
-I beg you.
-Sir, there's no need for this.
Trust me, Moko.
After one month…
After everything is ready,
I will come back and get Gadis.
Okay?
It's not that I don't want to help.
But I'm taking care
of my four nephews and nieces.
Help me, please, Moko.
I'm so sorry, I can't.
I beg you, Moko.
It's not that I don't want to help.
Help me, Moko, please.
Moko, I promise.
-I'll come back.
-Sir, this is unnecessary.
-Sir, I understand--
-I promise.
-It's not that--
-I promise I won't be a burden!
Yeah, I can cook.
I can do laundry too.
I promise I will be good
and I won't be a burden…
at all.
She's been outside?
Yes.
Moko?
Can I stay? I'll help out.
Ais, just come in.
Come in. Here, I'll help you.
Come on in.
-Please sit down, Is.
-Okay.
Come on in. Sit down.
Thank you, Moko.
This is Ima.
Oh, yes. Hello, Ima.
-This is Ais.
-Hi.
Are you sure, Moko?
-No.
-What?
So why did you say yes?
I had no choice, Wo.
You could've just politely refused.
Can we afford to have Ais here?
He gave you money?
Our money is running out.
I've also been freelancing
for the past two years.
The money he gave us
can help with school fees.
I need to look for a proper job.
To maintain this house,
and your college fund. I want you to--
College is not a priority.
I can postpone it.
Besides…
if I go to college and you work,
who's going to look after Ima?
Ano?
Next year. Okay, Wo?
I will try to put you in college.
About Ima, I'll figure something out.
Let's be hopeful.
Taste this.
Taste it.
Be careful.
So everyone can get some?
Come and eat!
Looks like they're having fun.
Food is ready. Tempe orek.
Okay.
Ais is good at it, isn't she?
Yay. Play some more.
What song? Any requests?
-Do you know "Jangan Risaukan"?
-"Jangan Risaukan"?
That's the one.
-The intro…
-Try it.
-That's the one!
-That's right.
-Try it.
-Okay.
I remember!
So what do we say to Ais?
I will talk to Ais later.
I have an interview. Wish me luck.
For sure.
Okay, then. Here, Wo.
Hanoby. "Handover of the Baby."
-Here. With Woko.
-With me, okay?
-Be good.
-Bye, Ima!
Bye, Ima!
Bye!
Bye. Wave again.
-Bye! Again.
-Bye.
Still? Till how far
should we wave goodbye?
-Bye, Ima!
-Bye!
Bye, Woko.
Bye!
But I'm curious.
That gap after you graduated?
Why did you wait a few years?
I happen to have a baby niece, sir.
Okay.
During that gap,
I was taking care of my baby niece.
Okay.
Rin, is it done?
-One second, please.
-Okay.
Okay.
-Here you go.
-Okay.
Is he being interviewed
for the new drafter position?
Yes, he is.
-Thank you.
-Yes.
-Yes, sir, but--
-No!
I understand you have work experience.
But we have a system here. We have rules.
If the client complaints, how can I
back you up if you don't follow the rules?
Sir, sorry.
Maurin, hang on. I'm in a meeting.
Yes? You understand what I mean, right?
Sorry, but this is urgent.
Now, walk me through the work.
I want to take a look.
Come on! Open the laptop.
You need another junior architect, right?
Yes.
Bayu's drafter is applying
to be a full time employee.
I know him very well.
And in my opinion…
it would be a waste
if he's only hired as a drafter.
Can we talk later? I'm in a meeting!
He's the one you're looking for.
I'm sorry.
So, can you focus on work now?
Full time, yes.
Let's see over here.
-Mr. Alif, sorry.
-Yes?
Mr. Sam said that Mr. Moko could be
considered for the junior architect role.
Okay, but I have to reinterview him.
Can you do it, Moko?
Yes, I can.
-Thank you.
-Of course.
-Excuse me, sir.
-Sure.
Sorry, didn't we agree yesterday
not to tell Mr. Sam yet?
Yes, but Bayu said
I can talk directly to Mr. Sam.
But if it continues,
it'll be difficult for you in the future.
Yes, I understand. I'm sorry.
It's okay.
Next time, please tell me first.
You work here?
Yes.
-Care for a tour?
-Sure. Let's go.
Mr. Sam is a lecturer, Mo.
So he really appreciates it
when people here always want to learn.
-Did Mr. Alif give you a task?
-Yes.
But it's unusual
that you can do it at home.
That's actually Mr. Sam's trick.
During the presentation,
he would be able to tell
if it was your work or not.
When I was evaluated
for the junior architect role,
he also used that design.
Because that was
Mr. Sam's first project design.
Oh, yeah?
Mo, are you still using your old laptop?
From college?
I am.
The latest version
of Rhino is really heavy.
You can borrow my laptop if you want.
No. I'm planning to buy a new one
this afternoon anyway.
-Are you sure?
-Yes.
-You have time for that?
It was my plan because I have to…
It's fine. It's just that Mr. Sam
will scold me if you can't finish it.
-But that's okay.
-Hang on, "Scold you"?
No, it's fine.
How are the kids?
Ima plays by herself now.
She's two years old now.
The transition period.
Transition period?
She used to be fully dependent on me.
But now she knows what she wants.
That's why she often throws
tantrums and gets frustrated.
What about Nina?
Nina?
Where have you been?
-Shut up!
-I'm asking you a question. Na!
We were all worried about you.
Where have you been?
Where, Na? You should have let us know.
Na, I kept calling,
but you didn't answer.
-Na! Where--
-Stop it! You're not my father!
Recently I had a fight with Nina.
She came home late. Then I scolded her.
Got dumped? Nina?
And it was recorded. That's insane.
How could he?
Turns out she just got dumped
and it was recorded.
-Really?
-Yeah. Cruel, isn't it?
I'm sorry.
I only found out yesterday
about what happened to you.
I also apologize…
for making you feel like
I'm controlling you.
I should be the one apologizing, Moko.
No.
I should've understood.
They're really mean.
They plotted to trick me.
Actually, I…
To be someone that she can talk to…
it made me happy.
It must've been hard to be in her shoes.
How is Woko doing?
He has sacrificed the most.
He works as a driver
so Nina can go to college.
He really wanted to go to college too.
Law school.
But for his younger siblings,
he's willing to forget his dream.
What about Ano?
Ano said he wants to be an architect.
Because he was inspired by Atmo.
-Seriously?
-Cool, right?
There's one more story, Rin.
My childhood piano teacher
came to my house.
He entrusted his daughter to me.
-Seriously?
-Seriously.
He said he won't be long.
A month or so,
while he prepared everything,
so Ais can join him.
Her name is Gadis, we call her "Ais."
She's a very nice girl, Rin.
-So--
-Here's the flash disk.
And, Maurin, Mr. Sam's asking for you.
Yeah, I'll be there. Thank you.
Okay, then. Keep your spirits up.
Let me know if you need anything.
Okay.
-I should go.
-Okay.
-Excuse me, Miss? Which way is the exit?
-Over there.
Yes, sir, that's right.
I am interested in buying your laptop
because I know you're an architect. Yes.
You want payment on the spot? Okay.
Just send the time and location.
Yes. Thank you, sir.
Moko!
Ano said he's having a stomachache.
What's wrong?
-It feels like needles piercing.
-Needles?
Based on the blood test
and ultrasound results
he can be treated on an outpatient basis.
But we would like to monitor him
until the IV is done, okay?
-Thanks, Doctor.
-You're welcome.
The IV bag is still full?
Sir?
Your National Health Insurance payments
have been overdue for two years.
For the moment,
we're unable to process it.
Right. If I may know,
how much will it cost
without the insurance?
It's Rp 2,852,000 in total.
Bank transfer or debit card?
Give me a moment.
-Okay. Here, sir.
-Thank you.
Sir.
I'm sorry, I don't think
I can buy the laptop.
Why? It's not everyday you can find
a MacBook at such a great price.
It has the M1 chip.
Whatever app you want to install,
I can wait.
Just try, it will definitely run smoothly.
The battery is still at more than 90%.
You can use it all day, no problem.
And it's really light, only 1.29 kg.
You can get the scale and check.
I'm not lying.
-You can check the status. It's all good.
-Look…
The reason I'm canceling…
is because…
my nephew is sick.
Enteritis. I'm handling the bill now.
I hope he gets better soon.
But this hospital is good.
I remember when I was treated here.
This hospital is excellent.
They are meticulous.
The Emergency Room
is very efficiently structured.
The machines' specifications
are also no joke.
I didn't check the Wi-Fi,
but you can do it later.
-The signal was 5G on my cellphone.
-Right.
So this hospital
is a good choice, don't worry.
-I was satisfied.
-Yes.
I know this hospital is great.
That's why it's expensive.
Price is relative.
The point is to get well, right?
I forget how much it was
because I used insurance.
I forget how much the bill was.
It was worth it. With insurance,
we're only paying Rp 100,000 per month.
I was treated here for about
three or four days, but the bill…
Why did you end up with enteritis?
Woko…
He ate too much fried food.
-All that oil must have built up.
-Enough.
-Here.
-Thank you, Ais.
-Take your medicine after eating.
-Okay.
But don't eat fried food anymore.
Okay.
-Can I take a look too?
-Sure.
Can you still use the old laptop?
I can,
but I have to use a different software.
A lighter one.
-But is everything okay?
-All good.
Now I will make it…
Oh, no!
What else can I do?
I need to go to the bathroom.
-Ano, take the medicine.
-Okay.
Who was that, Is?
-Maurin.
-Oh, Maurin.
It's okay, I'll pick it up.
-Should I get Moko?
-No need.
Hello, Maurin?
-A lot, still?
-Does it always take so long?
-Yeah.
-Here's your coffee.
Yes, thank you.
Ais made coffee faster
than you moving a pillar.
-What's the matter?
-Woko…
Even if it's slow, if we're patient…
Why is it doing that?
Oh, no.
Oh, no!
Ais, boil some water.
Make more coffee for Moko.
it's going to take long.
I have to buy more coffee,
this is the last one.
Just use the dregs from that one.
He won't finish and will get acid reflux.
Oh, dear.
Even the sound is different.
It's a distinctive sound.
Is it done, No? Let me see.
You're pretty warm.
Are you warm? Yes, you are.
Eat the porridge first.
After that, take your medicine.
Thank you…
for coming to help Moko.
No problem, No.
These nuts here, don't eat them.
Just eat soft food for now.
But after you chew it, it becomes soft.
That's not how it works, Ano.
I can't imagine.
If you didn't come…
I feel bad for Moko.
The laptop kept restarting.
It's a very old laptop.
Next time…
if I get sick… I won't say anything.
I'll endure it as long as I can…
so Moko won't be burdened.
I feel bad for him.
Just like in college.
Didn't sleep to finish assignments.
No time for a shower,
but it's time to rush to campus.
Sorry that you had to take care of Ano.
It's okay, Mo.
-I just don't want to be a burden to you.
-No. It's okay.
Enough.
You better think
about the presentation to Mr. Sam.
What kind of person is Mr. Sam?
Will he ask technical questions?
Why are you smiling? Rin, I'm serious.
Maurin?
Rin?
But this is cute, right?
Ima will like it.
Here, Ais…
Cute, right?
Please help me with this.
It's Moko's. It has to be perfect.
I got the job.
You are so cool.
We didn't make him
one liter of coffee for nothing.
Ais' hand was sore from stirring.
Almost got acid reflux!
From making too much coffee.
Osa?
-Moko!
-Osa.
Sorry I couldn't come home earlier.
-It's okay. When did you arrive?
-This afternoon.
How are you? You got a job?
Congratulations.
-Sa?
-Yes, honey?
-Have you heated my food?
-Yes. One moment, please.
-Is that Moko?
-Yes.
Moko, heating up food is simple, isn't it?
Hot meal or not, not a problem.
Especially if it's from someone.
Huh?
-You meant these?
-Yes…
I bought this
to celebrate me getting hired.
Can I eat it with rice?
It can be a side dish.
-No. That's martabak…
-Congratulations.
Thank you, Nina.
-Moko?
-Kak.
Long time no see.
-You're good?
-I'm good.
You've become skinnier.
I heard you just got a job?
That's good. A steady job is a must.
Don't do freelance work.
How's your salary?
How much is your salary?
If you're not comfortable,
you don't need to answer.
But if you're just starting a job,
how much can you earn anyway?
Eight million.
Eight million? That's not bad.
That was how much I got
when I first started working.
But that was 10 years ago.
Ten years ago, it was a lot.
But it's not bad for now.
That's a good start.
Why do you look troubled?
Because the project is in Anyer.
And?
It's far from…
Oh, yeah. I understand.
But now you have me.
Osa is also here.
So you don't need to worry
about the house.
Don't worry about it.
I can take care of it.
Just focus on your work.
Well, but…
Yes?
I want to make eggs.
You prefer a sunny side up or omelet?
Omelet, of course.
I've never liked sunny side ups.
-Wait, make one for him too.
-Do you want egg?
What do you like?
-I have eaten…
-It's okay.
Just an omelette. He likes it.
-I've already eaten.
-Make him an omelette.
-What?
-Omelette.
Yes, omelette. For the others too. Okay.
Okay, then.
I suggest you take the job in Anyer.
Take it, okay?
You rest first.
Sit.
I brought a lot of things. There. Okay?
-Show them to Moko, okay?
-Yes.
-Thank you, Eka.
-Sure.
Ano?
What?
That's red velvet martabak, No.
Red usually means good luck.
It's good.
What? Want one? There's a lot in the back.
-Weird stomach.
-Whatever.
This is like mango sticky rice.
From Thailand.
He really ate it, Mo?
Yes, he really ate it.
It was red velvet martabak too.
Ano!
So, it's a full house now, Mo?
Eka and Osa are sleeping in Atmo's room,
where I usually sleep with Ima.
So, you're sleeping
in the front room again?
-Yes.
-With Ima?
No, Ima and Nina sleep
in Nina's room, along with Ais.
The timing's perfect.
Eka and Osa are back home.
Maybe this is fate?
So I get to have my own life.
Why does it feel strange?
To think that I can have my own life…
why does it feel wrong?
It's not strange, Mo.
I understand how you feel.
I know how it feels
to prioritize yourself…
and feel guilty about it.
When you had to be the father…
to those children…
And then
you didn't continue your education.
You've dedicated your time
to take care of them.
There was a time…
when I hated myself so much.
I hated myself because I thought…
that your priority was us.
But it turned out
that your priority was the children.
I really hated it every time
it crossed my mind.
It made me feel like
I was a horrible person.
I felt selfish.
And then you…
We broke up.
I'm sorry, Rin.
Oh, right.
Mr. Albert…
he gave out vouchers, Mo.
To stay at his resort.
Let's take the kids.
Come on. Let's all go.
The cottage can
accommodate them. Seriously.
We also have to evaluate the old resort.
So, when we build the new one,
we know how it should be.
Am I right?
You said it'd be good for Ima.
For her sensory skills.
It's good for her to walk on the sand
and play in the sea.
You mentioned texture.
So she won't be a picky eater.
Besides, it's been a while
since they went on a holiday.
Take them, okay?
Thank you, Rin.
Look at that. Over there!
Thank you for taking us on this holiday.
You should thank Maurin.
Thank you, Maurin.
Thank you.
Yes, you're welcome.
So, you will work here, Moko?
Not here.
The cottage will be over there.
How long will it take?
I don't know, Wo.
And I'm sorry
that I'll be away from home for a while.
Don't apologize.
We should be thanking you.
You're working for us.
Thank you.
No need to thank me.
That's my responsibility.
Thank you.
Ano!
-Thank you.
-Woko!
-Why are you copying them?
Excuse me, here's the coconut.
-Yes, thank you.
-Thank you.
Ais?
Ais!
Sorry, Ais is my relative.
I'm Moko, Mr. Nanang's former student.
Oh, right. Nanang told me about you.
Hello. I'm Erna, Nanang's relative.
-Nice to meet you.
-Yes.
Thank you for taking care of Ais.
If she doesn't behave,
just bring her back to me.
My husband and I had offered
to look after Ais.
But Nanang seems to have
his own point of view.
Excuse me.
-Yes.
-Sure.
-Got you!
-Fine, you want to do three versus one?
So, the owner of this resort
is the one you'll be working with?
Yes.
This is a good opportunity, Moko.
You have to work hard.
There is no comfortable work.
Don't tell me you want
that work-life balance thing?
It's a meaningless term
coined by lazy people.
Yes, Mo. When we were in Melbourne,
Eka worked really hard.
-That's right.
-All day and night.
Everyone did.
Sometimes, a lot of passengers,
sometimes none.
-Passengers?
-Guests!
She meant clients, Moko.
That's how a business is.
Sometimes it's busy, sometimes it's not.
Sometimes one or two people
stayed at our house.
Guests at the house.
I thought you were an Uber driver.
Of course not.
Why leave home and travel so far
just to work as a driver?
But that's fine too.
So, what else are you considering now?
We've surveyed all the way here.
You will take the job, right?
Yes, I'll definitely take it.
That's great.
Actually, I'm still worried
about the children.
I'm worried about Ima.
The project is in Anyer.
While they're at home and…
Yes, of course I get that.
Listen, Mo. Osa and I…
we know how much you've struggled.
You struggled for two years
and even cancelled your Master's.
I know that you had been working
as a freelancer.
Sometimes you earn money,
sometimes you don't.
You raise Ima
as if she were your own child.
Not to mention, you also help pay
for your nieces' and nephews' school fees.
You are amazing.
You're one of a kind, Mo.
No one would willingly sacrifice their
life for their nieces or nephews.
You're the only one.
And you've sacrificed a lot, Mo.
Woko gave up a lot of things as well.
He gave up his plans to go to college.
Woko is happy doing that.
Every morning I see him.
He plays guitar every morning.
That's what he wants.
Even if you send him to college,
he'll probably be expelled in no time.
Not to mention Ano.
Woko, Nina, Ima… I understand.
They're your biological nephew and nieces.
But Ano?
Ano is Atmo's nephew.
So he's my nephew too.
Fine, but please.
Please tell him he eats too much.
Twice as much as the other kids.
Even more than I do.
-Honey, don't say it like that.
-But you saw it too, right?
He can finish all the food if we let him.
Yes, Mo. It's true. Ano really eats a lot.
See?
Look, this needs to be discussed.
You know why?
Because I care about you. I do.
All of us here care about you.
Yes. Am I right, Maurin?
This kid is great.
Sacrificing his youth
for his nephews and nieces.
In Australia, the sandwich generation.
Right? What is it called here?
-Same?
-Same.
People who are stuck with burdens
they shouldn't be responsible for.
Moko is the sandwich generation.
I feel bad for your girlfriend.
Right?
See? Maurin is quiet because she agrees.
Look, about the children,
let Eka and I handle them.
It will be good for them
to have parental figures again.
Right.
Who is the other kid?
She's not family, but lives here.
-Don't mind it.
-Her name?
-Ais.
-Yes, her.
Yes, Mo, what about her?
She has a relative here. I was surprised.
You heard it yourself.
Her relative were willing to take her in.
Why did her father bring her to you?
You're not her family.
You don't have to act like a hero, Mo.
You are nice,
but you can't help everyone.
I've always believed
the considerate
will always meet the inconsiderate.
You know which one you are.
Listen, I understand that right now
you have a lot on your mind.
Let me do it.
I will talk to her relative.
Okay? I know how to speak nicely.
I'm an adult.
The relative is here, right?
Let me do the talking.
You just focus on what you're going to do.
Okay?
Osa…
It's okay.
It's all right.
Oh, yeah.
Keep in touch, Ais.
You too.
I'm going now.
-Hey, take care.
-Hey.
-I'm off now, Woko.
-Yes.
Bye, No!
-Take care, okay?
-Yeah.
-Take care, Ais.
-Bye!
-Bye, Ais!
Bye!
Take care.
Take care, Ais.
-Bye!
Call us often!
Bye!
Did you notice?
Between the three of us…
Agnes, me, and you.
You are the smartest.
The most diligent.
And the most obedient to our parents.
You deserve the most happiness.
Carry her. Take her on a walk, so…
Ima, come with me, will you?
Poor thing, she keeps crying.
-Ima, want me to carry you?
-Pick her up.
You want this? I have the one in green.
Here. You want to hold it?
Rin, are you sure the cottage
is not too big?
Is this too big?
Yes, Mr. Albert asked for 20.
If we add two here,
they'll be too cramped together.
Actually, Moko and I have discussed that.
If--
-What do you say, Mo?
-Yes, well…
I'm sorry in advance.
Don't you think it will be better
if we make it big?
Why?
Because Mr. Sam once mentioned
that the interior orientation
for this cottage
must be functional.
That's right. Okay.
But this has to be readjusted.
Yes.
Yes, okay.
Actually, we can still allocate
some space.
-Sorry.
-Your phone.
Answer it. I want to make coffee anyway.
Thank you.
But we need to take some out.
-All right. I'll try.
-Take a look first.
Hello?
Hello, Moko.
Yes, Eka. What's up?
How are you there?
Is work going all right?
All good.
You're in a good health?
I am.
Well, I'm calling
to give you an update.
Everything is fine and good at home.
But there's this one thing.
The roof is leaking.
Perhaps because
it hasn't been checked in years.
Okay, I'll send the money now.
How much does it cost?
I actually have all the details
for the repair costs. I'll send them now.
Yes, thank you.
-Bye, Moko.
-Bye!
Hi. So here's the thing…
Yes?
Osa has a reunion with her friends,
since she just got back.
I'm thinking maybe
I can buy her something
to cheer her up.
She's tired, taking care of the children.
I'm planning to buy her a bag.
We're all chipping in.
Do you want to help out?
-Okay.
-Can you help out?
All right. I'll buy the bag in a bit.
Can you transfer the money now?
-I have the money.
-Okay.
I have it. I'll send the money now, okay?
Okay. Thank you, Mo.
-Hey, Mo.
-Hey. What's up?
Please ask Mr. Naryo
about the plan for this.
Hello, Mo?
Yes?
The water pump at home broke, Mo.
Oh, no. How come?
It's been three days.
It was fixed,
but with my money. It's okay.
Okay. I'll send the money now.
No need.
No, don't say that.
I want to pay you back.
Okay.
The number you're calling is busy.
Please leave a voice message
by pressing star and the number.
The cost is Rp 400 per minute.
Moko? Are you busy?
Not really. What's up?
How's work?
Everything's good.
That's good. Listen…
I think the kids are tired
eating homecooked meals.
I should take them out to eat.
What do they usually like?
You can take them out to eat.
Is that so? I can do it once in a while.
But here's the thing, Mo.
Something's wrong with my credit card.
It's issued by an Australian bank.
I don't have a bank account here.
Do you have… Well…
Yes, of course. For the kids.
Right. Just for the kids, Mo.
Maybe just two million.
Right. Thank you, Mo.
The number cannot receive calls.
Please leave a voice message
by pressing the star…
Mo?
Yes, Rin?
Haven't you sent them money every month?
I have.
It's okay, Rin.
But I'm worried.
Why is it so hard to contact the kids?
What do you mean "it's okay", Mo?
It's okay
because that's my responsibility.
I get it.
But you've set the amount
that you will send every month.
If you keep doing this, Mo,
it won't be good for the kids.
-But it's for their needs, Rin.
-And what about your needs?
Living and lifestyle expenses
are different.
You should be paying
for their living expenses.
Not their lifestyle.
The cost of basic necessities to live.
Money for food, accommodation and school.
Take care of those.
But the lifestyle?
To buy a new cellphone…
to hang out at some coffee shop,
don't worry about it.
You can calculate living expenses.
But lifestyle…
If we keep following it, it's endless.
Trust me.
I'm also part of the sandwich generation.
My chat with my dad
looks like a bank statement.
That's how it is.
Four days ago my dad asked
for four million to buy dentures.
Two days ago, he asked for money
for the electricity bill, food and stuff.
So, there. Like a bank statement.
I only have my father, child and wife.
You? How many people? Five?
-Five.
-Seven.
Eka and Osa?
Are you supporting…
seven people? Seven relatives?
Hmm.
That seems crowded. That's a lot.
Hey.
Mr. Sam is really happy with your idea.
Yes.
He wants you
to do the presentation tomorrow.
Is that okay?
Of course it's okay. You have to try, Mo.
I'm happy for you.
That's Mr. Sam.
He responds to potential.
I just don't have
anything to do tomorrow. Sorry.
Thank you.
Thank you, Rin.
You're welcome, Mo.
I also want to thank you.
I didn't do anything.
-Hmm.
-"Hmm," what?
You're going to do
a presentation tomorrow.
Don't say that, Rin. I…
What if I do something wrong?
-I'll toss you into the water. Can I?
-Seriously. What if tomorrow Mr…
I'm serious.
A little to the right
Yes, you go up. Up a little.
Slowly, lower it a little. Yes.
Excuse us, sir.
Let's start the meeting.
Sorry for the wait.
Okay, then. Good morning, everyone.
Thank you, Mr. Albert,
for the opportunity.
Today we will present the design.
Mr. Bayu will--
Oh, Sam, I have notes for the interior.
The interior design needs to be
much more unique than the current one.
Okay, let's go straight
to the interior, shall we?
As we discussed yesterday, Mr. Albert…
Moko will be doing the presentation today.
-Okay.
-Yes.
Good morning.
As Mr. Albert said yesterday,
this resort will be a family resort.
That's why I designed the interior
with that vision in mind.
Sorry. Just the simplest thing.
About the choice of furniture
in the restaurant.
Right, that one.
Those chairs without arm rests…
they will look like a downgrade, Sam.
Well…
There is a reason for that. Just a moment.
Maurin, may I?
When a mother's eating
while holding her baby…
the baby has to be on the side.
Because while she's eating,
the baby could get food spilled on them.
Table width?
Too big, in my opinion.
Okay, sir.
The width of the table
must be pretty wide.
I know this will reduce
the number of tables in the room.
But when a family sits together,
eating with toddlers,
certain items should be kept
out of the child's reach.
It can be dangerous.
Like knives, forks, glasses.
What's the family room for?
We're making a resort, not a mall.
Yes.
But this is a family resort, right?
Because the one who changes the diaper…
and takes the child to the toilet
isn't always the mother.
Fathers do those things too.
And if the child is a girl,
it's going to be difficult.
In the nursery room…
they will see the mothers
who are breastfeeding.
So if another adult comes in,
it would be uncomfortable.
But I understand we have to respond…
to the current
social media marketing strategy.
At the resort,
there should be lots of photo spots.
But actually,
we can create a specific branding
that this family resort
is very concerned
about the comfort of a family.
How about this, then?
The cottage space…
is too big for me.
I asked for a minimalist design.
So we can build 30 cottages.
Okay, sir.
Actually, when a family is on holiday…
all they need is to be together.
A lot of children don't get
to spend time with their parents
because the parents are busy with work.
Therefore, the cottage
that I designed is bigger,
so they can be together.
Plus, we also provide extra beds.
Sam, no offense, okay?
The design you made
is not what I asked for.
I can call it off.
For the next draft,
I want you to make
a smaller cottage space.
Give me the date.
-I can't, sir.
-The date?
I can't, sir!
You need to change the vision then.
Don't be a family resort.
When a family is on vacation,
they want to be together.
That's the whole point.
Our cottage is not the thing
that should leave an impression.
But the memory of them
spending time together.
You, get out.
I'm done with you.
Okay, sir.
One more thing, sir.
Your painting is upside down.
All the points we just discussed,
I will do it myself later.
Okay.
-Thank you, Albert.
-Thank you, Sam.
Mr. Albert, I apologize.
If you could redo it…
what would you say to him?
The same thing.
But maybe more politely.
Do you remember
the project for your entrance test?
I do.
That was my first project.
I failed.
I presented it the same way you did.
You do that one more time,
and I will fire you.
Yes, sir.
Thank you, sir. And I'm sorry.
-I'm sorry.
-It's okay.
Maurin, I'm sorry.
You miss the kids?
Moko?
-Ais, you're selling drinks now?
-Yes, I'm helping Auntie Erna.
No school?
It's Saturday. No school on Saturday.
Take a seat please. I'll call Auntie Erna.
-Later.
-Later?
-Ais.
-Yes?
Do you miss playing the piano?
I do.
Actually, it's Dad that I miss.
Because, I don't know…
Every time I play the piano…
it feels like my dad is here.
With me.
I'm weird, huh?
Have you felt like that?
Doing something just to feel
that the person is still here?
Ais.
Have you heard from your dad at all?
I tried to contact him multiple times,
but never get a response.
I don't think he's coming back.
This is Ais.
Hi, nice to meet you.
Would you like a drink?
-Anything is fine.
-Okay.
That day Dad brought me to your house,
I knew he wouldn't come back to get me.
I knew because…
I had heard Dad and Mom fighting.
Neither of them wanted to
take care of me if they split up.
But I also hesitated at that time.
When Dad told me to choose
between living here with Aunt Erna
or with you in Jakarta.
But personally, I feel bad for Aunt Erna.
She's also struggling here.
But turned out,
your life in Jakarta was not easy either.
Like…
You already have four children
that you have to take care of.
A lot of people depending on you.
And suddenly I showed up.
I'm sorry.
Well, my dad…
and my mom,
you, and now Auntie Erna.
I feel like…
wherever I go, I always end up
being a burden to others.
Ais.
Yes?
If you press this…
can you hear the note?
Press it?
Thank you for visiting me.
I promise I will do better.
So I won't be a burden to Auntie Erna
or anyone else.
You're not a burden to me.
-I always have been.
-No.
-I was.
I was a burden in your house, right?
-No.
-I was.
No.
I burdened you.
That's why I, Nina, Woko and Ano,
we all have to work.
We all work hard
so that we won't burden you anymore.
What do you mean, Ais?
Mo, calm down.
I can't, Rin.
But you can't…
Hear me out first? Please!
-Eka is horrible, Rin.
-I know.
I can't just stay here.
Mo? Moko! Mo!
What, Rin?
Just take my car.
I will catch you later.
How long will you wait for a travel van?
The kids need you, Mo. Just go.
Go!
Do you know where the others work?
Woko…
he said he worked in a photocopy place.
But he's happy.
Because it was close to… Wait.
It's right next to the Trisakti campus.
That's his dream campus.
So he said…
he can take a peek
at the students' assignments.
He can learn from those.
As for Nina…
I didn't quite understand.
She said that she
worked at a restaurant
where she had to be mean.
Something like that.
I don't really get the concept.
And Ano…
he's a construction worker now.
He said he could lose weight
while he was at it. I'm not sure.
It's actually dangerous.
Hey, Mo? You didn't tell me
you're coming home.
Where is Eka?
He's out of town for work.
What's the matter?
Why did he make them work?
Calm down, Mo.
Wasn't the money I sent you enough?
Mo, calm down.
Osa, please just answer.
The money was enough.
But at the moment, Eka used the money
-for an investment--
-He used the money?
But the profit will be bigger.
You'll get it back. It's been proven.
Proven?
-The kids are working.
-Eka is great at investing.
-Osa, the kids are all working!
-You just need to be patient.
Have you ever heard
of something called binary options?
It involves billions of rupiah.
When the money grows,
not only the children,
even you can also stop working.
How long has Eka been gone?
About two months.
That's a fraudulent investment.
We won't get the money back.
How do you know it's a scam?
Mo? Moko?
Mo?
Hello, Ima. Hello.
I'm sorry I left you.
I'll go and get your siblings.
You'd love that?
You'd love that, huh?
Thank you, No.
-Is it good?
-Here, No.
Excuse me.
Ano?
Moko?
Let's go home.
Give me a minute. I'm not finished yet.
Sir?
Can I borrow your tools to help my nephew?
-You want to help?
-Yes, I know how to do it.
-Return it soon.
-Okay.
-Thank you.
-Sure.
It was Eka, right?
He said you were a burden?
Do you remember when you were sick
and I cancelled my plan to buy a laptop?
I was really grateful…
that you were okay.
But you almost didn't get the job
because of me.
Because you didn't buy the laptop.
That's right.
But I can find another job.
Money can be earned.
But the main thing for me…
is your health, No.
I work for you.
If something happens to you…
who will finish the rice at home?
Woko.
When did you get here?
Wo.
Don't listen to Eka, okay?
No way. Not anymore. He's insane.
-Woko…
-I never liked him from the start.
He speaks nonsense.
He said, nothing is free in this life,
that's why we have to work.
I feel so bad for the kids.
A construction worker, right?
Great. In construction.
He doesn't listen. He's impossible.
Okay, then. Where's Nina, Wo?
That girl. She's also hard to deal with.
She should focus on college.
I'm sorry.
Thank you, Wo.
Come on! Let's get Nina.
I'll clean up here first.
Why are you smiling?
-Just a moment.
-Okay.
You better look for another place to work.
-But, sir--
-You've been here for a month.
I don't think this job
is suitable for you.
I can do it. I'll try again.
That's not how it works, Nina.
How about this.
We have customers there. Serve them.
We'll see what you can do.
I'm not sure you can, though.
-I will try. I know I can.
-What are you waiting for?
Hi.
Na, let's go home.
Read it, tell me your orders!
I can tell by your look,
you don't have money.
Don't let me see you order
one meal to share!
That's how she's supposed to serve.
With anger.
Do your job well!
She yells. We chill.
Na.
Stop working.
Don't listen to Eka.
You've never been a burden to me.
-The others--
-You all are giving me trouble!
What's taking you so long? Can't you read?
Don't order.
Your brother is paying, right?
Can't you see his face?
He's young, he has hopes,
he has a future ahead of him.
Instead, you behave like leeches
and suffocate him. Don't you get it?
And you, you're an idiot, Moko!
Why let your family leech off you?
You should go, Moko!
Leave, work, live your own life!
We are responsible for our own lives.
Why worry about others?
And for what?
Are you trying to be a hero?
Nina…
I…
I don't want to be a burden
anymore. I'm sick of it!
I can survive by myself!
-Nina!
-Na!
-Na! Nina!
Nina!
Eka ran away, Na.
Eka ran away with all the money!
He said all those things
so he can run off with the money!
Na!
Eka ran away.
He had all of you working…
so that he could escape with the money.
None of you are my burden.
You're not a burden.
Nina.
Let's go home.
Ano, Woko.
Stop working, okay?
What's wrong? I've explained it to you.
Even if Eka didn't take the money,
we still burdened you.
No, Nina.
We are.
No, we're family.
Mo, I want to say something to you.
Me too.
You have done so much.
Hang on, Wo. What is it now?
You supported me earlier.
I did.
-But Nina has a point.
-How?
Nina is right.
If you used the money to buy a laptop…
This would never happened.
Hang on. One at a time.
I agree, the children are a burden, Mo.
Why are you saying that, Rin?
It is true, Mo.
-No, Rin. What--
-No…
-I never see them as a burden.
-Don't be naive.
That's just Eka talking.
It's a lie and I don't agree.
-What he's thinking--
-Listen. I'm trying to explain.
-What is this?
-Moko.
How about this?
So everyone can speak,
raise your hand if you want to speak.
Okay? We'll listen to whoever is talking
until they're done.
What?
So, Moko picked me up
at the construction site.
He told me
that we have never been a burden to him.
Deep down inside…
Moko truly wants to care for all of us.
Moko has been like a father figure to me.
So you don' think you're a burden?
No.
-You want to stop working?
-I still do, though.
What?
Let's say that Eka said that to us
so he could take the money
you sent for us.
Mind your words!
That's the reality.
It's an investment, it takes time.
Do you understand?
Can you give that excuse to my school?
Use that investment excuse
to Ano's school?
You can't, can you?
Because the money is gone
and we can't get it back.
That's enough.
Osa, if you want to join
the conversation, come here.
Okay. Go on.
All right, let's say
Eka didn't touch the money.
But the fact that Moko worked
tirelessly for us, day and night,
that's still true.
The fact is we are a burden. A hassle!
Nina!
Not a burden.
What family doesn't cause trouble?
Fine, say you're a hassle.
But have I never hassled you?
Never!
I took your sandals once
when you were about to use them.
-That's one.
-No, I have other sandals.
Woko.
You had to put off college
to take care of Ima
when I started working.
That must have been a hassle.
It's fun to play with Ima,
it's not a hassle.
Nina.
You cook for everyone
in this house everyday.
A hassle, right?
We never felt burdened by you
because you are so kind to us.
That's the thing.
You don't think
you've all been kind to me as well?
That you love me?
We're family.
There's no such thing
as being troublesome or a burden.
All of you, quit your jobs.
I work morning, noon, night.
Not once did I think about
asking you to repay me.
What kind of grownups will you become…
if you believe you owe something
to your family?
Okay.
I agree with Moko.
No one here is a burden.
But I don't believe
the kids should not be allowed to work.
What's this?
Why are you encouraging them to work?
Except for the construction job.
You hear me, Ano?
You're too young, it's dangerous.
-Okay.
-Find another job, okay?
Okay.
It's okay, Mo. It's okay for them to work.
Not because they feel indebted.
-Rin, you don't understand--
-What, Mo?
Want to break up again?
You can't, can you?
We're not even dating.
How long will this go on, Mo?
How long will you stop me
from standing up for you?
I want to live with you, Mo.
The kids want it too.
We're all here to support each other,
can we do that?
Okay.
Mo?
Hey.
We will do this together.
Can I join you?
You're sticky.
Let it be.
Would you like that?
But have you ever done that?
Doing something…
just to feel
that the person is still here?
What's the personal reason
you chose the open concept?
I don't want the academic explanation.
But I want to hear
the personal reason, from the heart.
Come on in.
-Need any help?
-I'm fine.
By knocking down the wall…
we'll have a more spacious area
for everyone to gather.
I'm home.
-Ais?
Any news from Eka?
I'm sorry.
Don't worry about it.
Osa?
What's wrong?
Nothing. Your hair looks nice.
Really?
Let's eat together.
Now your hair looks similar to mine.
NO BABIES WERE HARMED
DURING THE MAKING OF THIS FILM